README.md, before:

# dotnet shift

An opinionated .NET cli tool for working with OpenShift.

## Usage

Install .NET 6 or .NET 7 using the instructions at https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/install/.

Install the tool:

```
$ dotnet tool update -g dotnet-shift --prerelease --add-source https://www.myget.org/F/tmds/api/v3/index.json
```

Create an app:
```
$ dotnet new web -o /tmp/web
```

To log into the OpenShift cluster copy the `oc login` command from the OpenShift Web Console and replace `oc` by `dotnet shift`. If you don't have an OpenShift cluster, you can create a free cluster for experimenting at https://developers.redhat.com/developer-sandbox.


```
$ dotnet shift login --token=xyz --server=https://abc.openshiftapps.com:6443
```

Deploy the application to the cluster:
```
$ dotnet shift deploy --expose /tmp/web
```

## .NET Project Configuration

### ContainerEnvironmentVariable

Adds an environment variable in the container.

**Example:**

```xml
<ItemGroup>
  <ContainerEnvironmentVariable Include="LOGGER_VERBOSITY" Value="Trace" />
</ItemGroup>
```

### Resource Requirements

The `ContainerCpuRequest`, `ContainerCpuLimit`, `ContainerMemoryRequest`, `ContainerMemoryLimit` properties can be used to configure cpu and memory requests and limits.

**Example:**

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <ContainerCpuRequest>0.5</ContainerCpuRequest>
  <ContainerCpuLimit>2</ContainerCpuLimit>
  <ContainerMemoryRequest>100M</ContainerMemoryRequest>
  <ContainerMemoryLimit>200M</ContainerMemoryLimit>
</PropertyGroup>
```

### Ports

When an `ContainerEnvironmentVariable` for `ASPNETCORE_URLS` is set, ports are derived from it.
When publishing an ASP.NET Core project, and the environment variable is not explicitly set, a value of `http://*:8080` is used.

Additional ports can be exposed on the container using `ContainerPort`.

**Example:**

```xml
<ContainerPort Include="8081" Type="tcp"
               [ IsServicePort="true" Name="web2" ] />
```

To make a `ContainerPort` available through the service, you must add `IsServicePort = true` and set a `Name` for the port.

Ports from `ASPNETCORE_URLS` may be declared as `ContainerPort` to explicity set their `Name` and `IsServicePort` values.
The default value for an `ASPNETCORE_URLS` port `Name` is its scheme (e.g. `http`), and for its `IsServicePort` it is `true`.

## ConfigMap

The application is deployed with a `ConfigMap` with the same name as the application.

The `ConfigMap` is prepopulated with an empty `appsettings.json` entry.

```yaml
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
data:
  appsettings.json: |-
    {
    }
```

The `ConfigMap` is **not** overwritten when the application is re-deployed.

The `ConfigMap` is mounted in the container at `/config`.

The `appsettings.json` file can be added to the ASP.NET configuration by using the following code:

```cs
var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);
builder.Configuration.AddJsonFile("/config/appsettings.json", optional: true, reloadOnChange: true);
```

The `reloadOnChange: true` argument causes the application to pick up changes made to the `ConfigMap`
without requiring a restart.

Commit message:

Support configuring persistent storage through the project file.

README.md, after:

# dotnet shift

An opinionated .NET cli tool for working with OpenShift.

## Usage

Install .NET 6 or .NET 7 using the instructions at https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/install/.

Install the tool:

```
$ dotnet tool update -g dotnet-shift --prerelease --add-source https://www.myget.org/F/tmds/api/v3/index.json
```

Create an app:
```
$ dotnet new web -o /tmp/web
```

To log into the OpenShift cluster copy the `oc login` command from the OpenShift Web Console and replace `oc` by `dotnet shift`. If you don't have an OpenShift cluster, you can create a free cluster for experimenting at https://developers.redhat.com/developer-sandbox.


```
$ dotnet shift login --token=xyz --server=https://abc.openshiftapps.com:6443
```

Deploy the application to the cluster:
```
$ dotnet shift deploy --expose /tmp/web
```

## .NET Project Configuration

### Environment Variables

`ContainerEnvironmentVariable` adds an environment variable in the container.

**Example:**

```xml
<ItemGroup>
  <ContainerEnvironmentVariable Include="LOGGER_VERBOSITY" Value="Trace" />
</ItemGroup>
```

### Resource Requirements

The `ContainerCpuRequest`, `ContainerCpuLimit`, `ContainerMemoryRequest`, `ContainerMemoryLimit` properties can be used to configure cpu and memory requests and limits.

**Example:**

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <ContainerCpuRequest>0.5</ContainerCpuRequest>
  <ContainerCpuLimit>2</ContainerCpuLimit>
  <ContainerMemoryRequest>100M</ContainerMemoryRequest>
  <ContainerMemoryLimit>200M</ContainerMemoryLimit>
</PropertyGroup>
```

### Ports

When an `ContainerEnvironmentVariable` for `ASPNETCORE_URLS` is set, ports are derived from it.
When publishing an ASP.NET Core project, and the environment variable is not explicitly set, a value of `http://*:8080` is used.

Additional ports can be exposed on the container using `ContainerPort`.

**Example:**

```xml
<ContainerPort Include="8081" Type="tcp"
               [ IsServicePort="true" Name="web2" ] />
```

To make a `ContainerPort` available through the service, you must add `IsServicePort = true` and set a `Name` for the port.

Ports from `ASPNETCORE_URLS` may be declared as `ContainerPort` to explicity set their `Name` and `IsServicePort` values.
The default value for an `ASPNETCORE_URLS` port `Name` is its scheme (e.g. `http`), and for its `IsServicePort` it is `true`.


### Persistent Storage

Persistent volume claims can be configured using `ContainerPersistentStorage`.

`Access` can be set to `ReadWriteOnce`, `ReadOnlyMany`, `ReadWriteMany`, `ReadWriteOncePod`.
The default is `ReadWriteOnce`. When `Access` is `ReadWriteOnce` or `ReadWriteOncePod` the deployment will use the recreate strategy to ensure the previous pod is terminated so the new pod can attach.

**Example:**

```xml
<ContainerPersistentStorage Include="data" Size="300Mi" Path="/data"
                            [ Limit="1Gi" StorageClass="myclass" Access="ReadWriteMany" ]/>
```

## Application ConfigMap

The application is deployed with a `ConfigMap` with the same name as the application.

The `ConfigMap` is prepopulated with an empty `appsettings.json` entry.

```yaml
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
data:
  appsettings.json: |-
    {
    }
```

The `ConfigMap` is **not** overwritten when the application is re-deployed.

The `ConfigMap` is mounted in the container at `/config`.

The `appsettings.json` file can be added to the ASP.NET configuration by using the following code:

```cs
var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);
builder.Configuration.AddJsonFile("/config/appsettings.json", optional: true, reloadOnChange: true);
```

The `reloadOnChange: true` argument causes the application to pick up changes made to the `ConfigMap`
without requiring a restart.
